#summary Release Notes

== Moodle, 2009-02-27 ==

  * Fix search and replace function on tags page

== OJS, 2009-02-25 ==

  * Work-around for IE, which was crashing when more then one tab was open.  (Due to CSS.  Yay for exploder.)
  * Implement click-to-link for IE.

== Moodle, 2009-02-24 ==

  * user drop-down broken as side-effect of previous fix
  * user drop-down sometimes displayed incorrect user (previous fix didn't cover all cases)
  * frequently used margin note list (tags) used for autocomplete not auto-updating until page reloaded

== OJS, 2009-02-24 ==

  * click-to-link not working for other windows (though did work for current window)

== OJS, 2009-02-19 ==

  * On some web servers Marginalia was not working due to malformed content-type on localized strings file

== Moodle, 2009-02-18 ==

  * fix quote button on summary page
  * ensure quote button on forum posts replies to correct post
  * sometimes annotation display and annotation user drop-down menu on forum page would conflict
  * autocomplete would force an autocompletion when Enter was pressed, so instead use a drop-down menu for now

== Moodle, 2009-02-11 ==

  * fix quote buttons on posts and margin notes

== Moodle, 2009-01-20 ==

  * fixes to the code for upgrading existing annotations from older (pre-December 2008) versions of Marginalia
  * file path problem for Moodle 1.8

If you did not have trouble with either of these, you do not need to update to this version.

== All Versions, 2009-01-07 ==

This release fixes a significant security problem.

== OJS, Demo 2008-12-22 ==

  * IE compatibility for OJS.
  * Bug fixes and performance improvements for OJS.
  * Fixed modified and created dates for OJS.
  * CSRF protection for OJS.
  * IE fixes for the demo.

== Demo 2008-12-21 ==

  * The non-static demo only works with userids, not usernames.  When annotations created by other users were displayed, the username was blank.  Now the username is set equal to the userid.  In a working application, the username should be a proper human-readable name (contrasted with the userid, which must be unique - usually it's the login name).

== December 2008 Release ==

This release is aimed at stabilizing and refining the Moodle version, though consideration is being given to the other versions also.  So far there have been releases of the Moodle version (2008-12-14 and later) and demo (2008-12-20 and later).  The following changes are in the Marginalia core libraries and apply to all subsequent releases for all platforms (Moodle, OJS, demo):

  * IE (version 7) is again supported.  Safari is also now fully supported (thanks to browser improvements by Apple).

  * I found a serious problem that could cause margin notes to be wrongly ordered on pages containing HTML br elements.  Typically, notes would cluster towards the bottom of the margin, not near their highlights.  The fix requires a change in the database.  Fixes to data can only happen when a user logs in and views his or her annotations.  Pages displaying annotations by multiple users may exhibit this kind of incorrect behavior (even when they didn't before) until all users have viewed their annotations on the page.  This will fix annotations already experiencing the problem _so long as you visit the page in a non-IE browser_ (this is due to IE's lack of XPath support).

  * Marginalia previously assumed well-formed HTML, i.e. HTML in which block elements are never nested within inline elements.  Marginalia no longer makes this assumption, although in some cases it might be quite slow on malformed pages.

  * Protection against a form of cross-site request forgery attack that could in theory be used to modify or delete a user's existing annotations.  This is implemented for Moodle (if cookies are used for the session ID, which is the default) and OJS.  Previously the benefits of such an attack would be limited;  to my knowledge there was and is no way to inject database commands or HTML through Marginalia.

The following changes are Moodle-specific:

  * Marginalia is, to the extent possible, a proper Moodle plug-in.  This makes it much easier to install:  Moodle will automatically create Marginalia's database tables, and there are fewer files to place in odd places.  This should also make future upgrades much simpler.

  * Smartcopy is gone.  It was a Firefox-specific hack that was not discoverable and seemed to seldom be used.  Instead, we now have Smartquotes.  A "quote" button beneath each forum message allows you to select and quote message content into a reply.  This will start a reply if necessary, or paste into a reply in another window.

  * Annotations can also be quoted.  If you wish to reply to someone else's annotation, click the quote button.  Or, you can effectively turn one of your own annotations into a forum post.  We found that users tried to conduct discussions within the annotation margin.  This is intended to redirect discussion back to the medium best suited for it - the forum itself.

  * Tags (keywords) have been replaced with a system to make it easy to type frequently used margin notes.  If a note has been used more than once, Marginalia can autocomplete it when you start typing.  This eliminates the +/- control next to each annotation, and eliminates the need to create tags on the Tags page.

  * The summary page search interface has been simplified.  The drop-down menus for specifying search criteria are gone.  Instead, you can click a pop-up icon next to the name of a user in the summary results in order to filter by that user.  You can do the same for tags (notes used more than once).  In order to remove filters from the search, click on links in the text description of the search at the top of the page.  Clicking here can also specify that the search should find exact matches of the search string (useful for keywords).

  * All users' existing (public) annotations on a forum page can be fixed automatically when an administrator views them.  This can prevent the display problem mentioned above.  This feature allows admin users to make changes to highlight range locations for other users, so it can be switched off for increased security.

  * The height of the button in the margin is set correctly, including when annotations are added, deleted, etc.

  * The database schema has been redesigned to be smaller and faster (using Moodle id values instead of the strings used in Marginalia's client/server protocol).

  * The Moodle-specific code is being shifted towards Moodle's coding standards.