<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Strict//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-strict.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"><head><meta http-equiv="content-type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8" /><title /><meta name="generator" content="StarOffice/OpenOffice.org XSLT (http://xml.openoffice.org/sx2ml)" /><meta name="author" content="Geoffrey Glass" /><meta name="created" content="2007-07-13T11:42:47" /><meta name="changedby" content="Geoffrey Glass" /><meta name="changed" content="2007-07-16T09:57:10" /><base href="." /><style type="text/css">
	@page { size: 8.5inch 11inch; margin-top: 0.7874inch; margin-bottom: 0.7874inch; margin-left: 0.7874inch; margin-right: 0.7874inch }
	table { border-collapse:collapse; border-spacing:0; empty-cells:show }
	td, th { vertical-align:top; }
	h1, h2, h3, h4, h5, h6 { clear:both }
	ol, ul { padding:0; }
	* { margin:0; }
	*.Caption { font-family:'Times New Roman'; font-size:12pt; margin-top:0.0835in; margin-bottom:0.0835in; font-style:italic; }
	*.Footnote { font-family:'Times New Roman'; font-size:10pt; margin-left:0.1965in; margin-right:0in; text-indent:-0.1965inch; }
	*.Heading { font-family:Arial; font-size:14pt; margin-top:0.1665in; margin-bottom:0.0835in; }
	*.Heading1 { font-family:Arial; font-size:115%; margin-top:0.1665in; margin-bottom:0.0835in; font-weight:bold; }
	*.Index { font-family:'Times New Roman'; font-size:12pt; }
	*.List { font-family:'Times New Roman'; font-size:12pt; margin-top:0in; margin-bottom:0.0835in; }
	*.P1 { font-family:'Times New Roman'; font-size:12pt; }
	*.P2 { font-family:'Times New Roman'; font-size:12pt; }
	*.Standard { font-family:'Times New Roman'; font-size:12pt; }
	*.Textbody { font-family:'Times New Roman'; font-size:12pt; margin-top:0in; margin-bottom:0.0835in; }
	*.Sect1 { }
	*.BulletSymbols { font-family:StarSymbol; font-size:9pt; }
	*.Footnoteanchor { vertical-align:sup; }
	*.FootnoteSymbol { }
	*.T1 { font-style:normal; }
	*.T2 { font-style:italic; }
	*.T3 { font-weight:bold; }
	</style></head><body dir="ltr"><p class="Standard">`Twas brillig, and the  toves</p><p class="Standard">  Did gyre and gimble in the wabe:</p><p class="Standard">All mimsy were the borogoves, </p><p class="Standard">  And the mome raths outgrabe.</p><p class="Standard"> </p><p class="Standard"> </p><ul style="margin-left:1.25cm;"><li class="P1" style="margin-left:0cm;"><p class="P1" style="margin-left:0.25cm;">"Beware the Jabberwock, my son! </p></li><li class="P1" style="margin-left:0cm;"><p class="P1" style="margin-left:0.25cm;">  The jaws that bite, the claws that catch!</p></li></ul><ul style="margin-left:1.25cm;"><li class="P2" style="margin-left:0cm;"><p class="P2" style="margin-left:0.25cm;">Beware the Jubjub bird, and shun </p></li><li class="P2" style="margin-left:0cm;"><p class="P2" style="margin-left:0.25cm;">  The frumious Bandersnatch!"</p></li></ul><p class="Standard"> </p><p class="Standard">He took his <span class="T1">vorpal</span> sword <span class="T2">in hand</span>:</p><p class="Standard">  Long time the <span class="T3">manxome</span> foe he sought --</p><p class="Standard">So rested he by the <span class="T3">Tumtum</span> tree,</p><p class="Standard">  And stood awhile in <span class="T2">thought</span>.</p><p class="Standard"> </p><div class="Sect1"><p class="Standard">And, as in uffish thought he stood, </p><p class="Standard">  The Jabberwock, with eyes of flame,</p><p class="Standard">Came whiffling through the tulgey wood, </p><p class="Standard">  And burbled as it came!</p><p class="Standard"> </p><p class="Standard">One, two! One, two! And through and through </p><p class="Standard">  The vorpal blade went snicker-snack!</p><p class="Standard">He left it dead, and with its head </p><p class="Standard">  He went galumphing back.</p></div><p class="Standard"> </p><h1 class="Heading1"><a name="_22And_2C_has_thou_slain_the_Jabberwock_3F" />"And, has thou slain the Jabberwock?</h1><p class="Standard">  Come to my arms, my beamish boy!</p><p class="Standard">O frabjous day! Callooh! Callay!' </p><p class="Standard">  He chortled in his joy.</p><p class="Standard"> </p><p class="Standard"> </p><p class="Standard">`Twas brillig, and the slithy toves </p><p class="Standard">  Did gyre and gimble in the wabe;</p><p class="Standard">All mimsy were the borogoves, </p><p class="Standard">  And the mome raths outgrabe.</p></body></html>